# Path Correction
People that are visually impaired suffer through many difficulties everyday. From doing regular chores in their house, to doing activities with their family. This project aims to help people who are blind when they are taking a walk. It will gather real time GPS data and deploy a ML algorithm to detect whether the person is falling of course. 
First thing I did when approached with this project was plan it out. I planned to first tackle the front-end creating a simple UI which would display a map and gather GPS data every second. I planned to utilize a database to store all that data so the back-end that I write could work with it. For the back-end I was a little confused, I wasn’t sure of the specs of my algorithm and decided to further plan it out after I have finished the front-end. Now as I reflect, I should have brought another person who specializes in front-end development so I can spend more of my time on the back-end than the front-end. 
Creating the front-end was fairly difficult for me, because I had no prior experience with any UI libraries. I first researched the many languages that provided a way to build the functionality of my app. After consulting with other developers with more experience than me in front-end development I decided to use Unity. After a few days of trying to install Unity and work with it, I realized that it was not the best course of action due to its complexity. I then shifted my focus to Swift and Xcode. Swift proved to be very simple and easy to learn as I only had to finish a 6 hour course on it and I had already learned most of it. I then spent the next few days playing around with the Xcode platform adding different elements and overall adding to the graphic design. Then came the hard part, adding the functionality. I did some research and found MapView, a library used to display the map. I was able to display the map and center it on any location with latitude and longitude coordinates. After that, I researched getting the user’s location, having to ask for permission from the IOS system and also asking permission from the user. I then created a delegate function (a function that is called from an action occurring in another class) and was able to get the user’s real time location data. From there, I started working on the data storage. I used a free, open-sourced server provider called Google Firebase. I used Firestore as my database and was easily able to load the data into the database. 
After I had finished the functionality of the app, it was time to work on the back-end. Noah and I came up with a simple algorithm using linear regression of the first few GPS points then finding the disparity of the other points based on the line created by the first few points. This disparity will then be used to calculate whether the user is straying of course or not. I experimented with many types of regression libraries and played around with the data incorporating time stamps and other pieces of data that may help. I was not able to fully finish the back-end as I had run out of time.
In the github you will find two directories, front-end and back-end. The front-end directory has all the code that I used to create the functionality. You would have to clone the ContentView.swift, data.swift, and demoApp.swift on your own xcode project. Follow this video to download the required libraries and configure a Firebase with the xcode project. 
Reach out to jaisnish06@gmail.com if you have any other questions as to how to use my code or there are any errors in running it.  
